W-14927671  Pdk ga branch gr (#464)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: pdk/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-configure-features-inject-parameters.adoc

= Injecting Parameters
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

PDK provides the following parameters that you can inject into the `#[entrypoint]` configuration function:

* `Configuration`: Provides the policy's configuration parameters. For information about how to define configuration parameters, see xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[].

> * `Metadata`: Provides metadata about the Policy, the Flex instance, the API instance and the Anypoint Organization. For more information about the metadata provided, see <<metadata>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Metadata`: Provides metadata about the Policy, the Flex instance, the API instance, and the Anypoint Organization. For more information about the metadata provided, see <<metadata>>.
```

> * `Metadata`: Provides metadata about the Policy, the Flex instance, the API instance, and the Anypoint Organization. For more information about the metadata provided, see <<metadata>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Metadata`: Provides metadata about the Policy, the Flex Gateway instance, the API instance, and the Anypoint Organization. For more information about the metadata provided, see <<metadata>>.
```

> * `HttpClient`: Enables the policy to make HTTP calls. For more information about how to make HTTP calls from the policy, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-http-request.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: "Enables" implies that the value of `HttpClient` is a boolean. Is this the case? If so does this need to be specified?

Author: It enables the custom policy to make requests, like OAuth, see more explains.

* `CacheBuilder`: Provides the caching features of the policy. For more information about caching, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-caching.adoc[].
* `StreamProperties`: Provides a structure to share properties with other policies that process the same request. For more information about sharing information between policies, see <<streamproperties>>.

You can also directly inject the `HttpClient` and `StreamProperties` parameter into the `on_request` or `on_response` wrapped functions. For example, if you need to perform an HTTP call inside the `on_request` function, inject `HTTPClient` directly into that function. 

> For best practice, inject the parameters only where they must be used. However, if the parameters require initialization steps that only need to be performed once when the policy is applied, it is best to inject the parameters into the `#[entrypoint]` to complete the configuration steps to increase the performance of the wrapped functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For best practice, inject the parameters only where they must be used. However, if the parameters require initialization steps that need to be executed only one time when the policy is applied, it is best to inject the parameters into the `#[entrypoint]` to complete the configuration steps to increase the performance of the wrapped functions.
```

> == on_request and on_response Wrapped Functions

Reviewer 2: For tutorials, "==" level sections need to be imperative tasks.

> The wrapped functions can receive the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wrapped functions accept the following parameters:
```

* `StreamProperties`

> * `HttpClient`

Reviewer 2: No descriptions for the above two parameters?

Author: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-gateway/pull/504

* `RequestState`: Provides access to the different stages of request filtering to operate over the incoming requests headers and body. `RequestState` is only available in `on_request` functions. To read and write to the headers and body in the`RequestState`, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-headers.adoc[].
* `ResponseState`: Provides access to the different stages of request filtering to operate over the upstream responses headers and body. `ResponseState` is only available in `on_response` functions. To read and write to the headers and body in the `ResponseState`, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-headers.adoc[].
* `RequestData`: Share data between the `on_request` and`on_response` functions. `RequestData` is only available in `on_response` functions. To learn more about `RequestData`, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-share-data.adoc[].

> * `DefaultBindings`: Provides an easy way to bind relevant information to Dataweave evaluators. To learn more about `DefaultBindings`, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-dataweave.adoc#defaultbindings[DefaultBindings].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `DefaultBindings`: Provides an easy way to bind relevant information to DataWeave evaluators. To learn more about `DefaultBindings`, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features-dataweave.adoc#defaultbindings[DefaultBindings].
```

* `Authentication`: Provides access to read authentication data or share it with other policies. To learn more about `Authentication`, see <<authentication>>.

> If your wrapped functions only receives the above parameters, the lambda is not required in the wrapper. For example, if the signature of the function is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your wrapped functions only receive these parameters, the lambda is not required in the wrapper. For example, if the signature of the function is:
```

[source,Rust]
----
async fn request_filter(state: RequestState) -> RequestData<String>;
async fn response_filter(state: ResponseState, RequestData(path): RequestData<String>);
----

> Instead of a function definition of:

Reviewer 2: Does this "instead" relate to the above "If your wrapped functions...", or does it relate to the below "You can use the following...."?

Author: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-gateway/pull/504

[source,Rust]
----
let filter = on_request(|request_state| request_filter(request_state))
    .on_response(|response_state, request_data| response_filter(response_state, request_data));
----

You can use the following function definition:

[source,Rust]
----
let filter = on_request(request_filter)
        .on_response(response_filter);
----

> If your wrapped functions require other parameters, such as the configuration parameters defined in the `#[entrypoint]` function. To pass the parameters, define the lambda and send a variable reference, for example:

Reviewer: This first sentence looks incomplete. If it is part of the previous example, I'd suggest to rearrange it like: 

> If your wrapped functions require other parameters, such as the configuration parameters defined in the `#[entrypoint]` function, you can use the following function definition:
> 
> [source,Rust]
> ----
> let filter = on_request(request_filter)
>         .on_response(response_filter);
> ----
> 
> To pass the parameters, define the lambda and send a variable reference, for example: 

Not sure if this change is correct, please check.

[source,Rust]
----
async fn request_filter(state: RequestState, conf: &Config, tuple: &(u32, u32)) {
...
}

#[entrypoint]
async fn configure(launcher: Launcher, Configuration(bytes): Configuration) -> Result<()> {
    let config = serde_json::from_slice(&bytes)?;
    let tuple: (u32, u32) = (10, 10);

    let filter = on_request(|request_state| request_filter(request_state, &config, &tuple));

    launcher
        .launch(filter)
        .await?;

    Ok(())
}
----

[[metadata]]

> == Metadata

Reviewer 2: For tutorials, "==" level sections need to be imperative tasks.

> PDK exposes a `Metadata` injectable that provides metadata about the Policy, the Flex instance, the API instance and the Anypoint Organization. The `Metadata` struct is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PDK exposes a `Metadata` injectable that provides metadata about the Policy, the Flex instance, the API instance, and the Anypoint Organization. The `Metadata` struct is as follows:
```

+
[source,Rust]
----
pub struct PolicyMetadata {
    pub policy_name: String,
    pub policy_namespace: String,
}
----

* `ApiMetadata`:
+
[source,Rust]
----
pub struct ApiMetadata {
    pub id: Option<String>,
    pub name: Option<String>,
    pub version: Option<String>,
    pub slas: Option<Vec<ApiSla>>, // API SLA tiers in the platform
}

// Each ApiSla contains the limits for each SLA. 
pub struct ApiSla {
    pub id: String,
    pub tiers: Vec<Tier>, // Limits within an API SLA tier in the platform
}
----

* `PlatformMetadata`:
+
[source,Rust]
----
pub struct PlatformMetadata {
    pub organization_id: String,
    pub environment_id: String,
    pub root_organization_id: String,
}
----

=== Inject Metadata into the #[entrypoint]

To inject metadata into the `#[entrypoint]` configuration function, see the following code snippet: 

[source,Rust]
----
#[entrypoint]
async fn configure(launcher: Launcher, metadata: Metadata) -> Result<()> {
    logger::info!("Flex instance name is: {}", metadata.flex_metadata.flex_name.to_string());

    launcher
        .launch(on_request(filter))
        .await?;
    Ok(())
}
----

=== Inject Metadata into the Wrapped Functions

> You can not directly inject metadata into the wrapped functions. To use metadata in the wrapped functions, first inject the data into the `#[entrypoint]` function and then the wrapped function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You cannot directly inject metadata into the wrapped functions. To use metadata in the wrapped functions, first inject the data into the `#[entrypoint]` function and then the wrapped function:
```

[source,Rust]
----
#[entrypoint]
async fn configure(launcher: Launcher, metadata: Metadata) -> Result<()> {
    launcher
        .launch(on_request(|r| request_filter(r, &metadata)))
        .await?;
    Ok(())
}

async fn request_filter(_: RequestState, metadata: &Metadata) -> Flow<()> {
    let mut vec = Vec::new();
    let headers = &mut vec;
    headers.push((
        "flex_name".to_string(),
        metadata.flex_metadata.flex_name.to_string(),
    ));
    headers.push((
        "policy_name".to_string(),
        metadata.policy_metadata.policy_name.to_string(),
    ));

    Flow::Break(Response::new(201).with_headers(vec))
}
----

[[streamproperties]]

> == StreamProperties

Reviewer 2: For tutorials, "==" level sections need to be imperative tasks.

* Consume properties set by other policies that are processing the same request.
* Broadcast properties so that the other policies can consume them. 

To share data, `StreamProperties` implements the `PropertyAccessor` trait:

[source,Rust]
----
pub trait PropertyAccessor {
    fn read_property(&self, path: &[&str]) -> Option<Bytes>;
    fn set_property(&self, path: &[&str], value: Option<&[u8]>);
}
----

The following example shows a simple filter that reads a property from the stream and then writes another parameter to it:

[source,Rust]
----
async fn request_filter(stream: StreamProperties) -> Flow<()> {
    let incoming = String::from_utf8(stream.read_property(&["incoming_property"]).unwrap_or_default()).unwrap_or_default();

    logger::info!("Recieved incoming prop {}", incoming);

    let outgoing = "outgoing".as_bytes();

    stream.set_property(&["outgoing_property"], Some(outgoing));

    Flow::Continue(())
}

#[entrypoint]
async fn configure(launcher: Launcher) -> Result<()> {
    let filter = on_request(|stream| request_filter(stream));
    launcher.launch(filter).await?;
    Ok(())
}
----

[[authentication]]

> == Authentication

Reviewer 2: For tutorials, "==" level sections need to be imperative tasks.
